# How can I internationalize my application? {#i18n}

We will rely on the `i18n` gem to handle internationalisation
of strings and objects, and to manage fallbacks on available locales

```ruby
require 'i18n'
require 'i18n/backend/fallbacks'
```

The following configuration is necessary on I18n so that:

  * it can fallback on other locales if the requested one is not
    available (ie: translation does not exist).
  * all the translations are read from YAML files located in the
    `locales` directory

```ruby
configure do
  I18n::Backend::Simple.send(:include, I18n::Backend::Fallbacks)
  I18n.load_path = Dir[File.join(settings.root, 'locales', '*.yml')]
  I18n.backend.load_translations
end
```

**Note:** You may not wan't to override the I18n load path in case
other gems have set it, (e.g. mongoid). 
If you don't wan't to override it, make sure you set it before you
require your gems, or simply add your load path to the current one:

```ruby
  I18n.load_path += Dir[File.join(settings.root, 'locales', '*.yml')]
```

Now we need to choose the locale that the user wants. There are several
solutions (and some can even be mixed together): browser preference,
specific URL, dedicated subdomain, cookies/session management.
Only the first three will be shown below:

### Browser preference (requires `rack-contrib`)

```ruby
use Rack::Locale
```

### Specific URL

```ruby
before '/:locale/*' do
  I18n.locale       =       params[:locale]
  request.path_info = '/' + params[:splat ][0]
end
```

### Dedicated subdomain

```ruby
before do
  if (locale = request.host.split('.')[0]) != 'www'
    I18n.locale = locale
  end
end
```

We have all the necessary information to deliver to the user
texts/pages in their native language. And for that we will need to
select strings and templates according to the desired locale.

Selection of localized strings/objects is easy as it only requires
use of standard methods from `I18n`

```ruby
I18n.t(:token)
I18n.l(Time.now)
```

For rendering the templates matching the desired locale, we need to
extend the `find_template` method.  It needs to select the first
template matching the user locale (or at least one acceptable
fallback). To help in the selection process templates stored 
in the `views` directory are suffixed by the name of the locale.

```ruby
helpers do
  def find_template(views, name, engine, &block)
    I18n.fallbacks[I18n.locale].each { |locale|
      super(views, "#{name}.#{locale}", engine, &block) }
    super(views, name, engine, &block)
  end
end
```

